Takeaways of webinar 2: How to make
decarbonisation efforts pay off
Methods for the calculation of emissions embedded in goods

   •   Actual values are determined in line with the methods set out in
       Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/2547 as regards the methods
       for the calculation of emissions embedded in goods. Also called “CBAM
       Methodology for embedded emissions”

   •   The main changes and key topics introduced, compared with the
       transitional methodology are:

             o The concept of a functional unit, as a reference for calculated
               embedded emissions. The functional unit is defined as a category of
               goods that share similar characteristics in terms of function,
               performance, or quality. By default, the functional unit is the tonnes of
               goods under the same CN code produced in the installation. For
               cement and fertilisers, the functional unit is the content of the
               component directly related to the performance of the goods, clinker
               and nitrogen.

             o The production processes are defined by the functional unit;
               therefore, they cannot be split in production routes.

             o There may be multifunctional processes in the installation, meaning
               production processes that deliver goods under two or more functional
               units. The methodology sets rules for them, and the Commission also
               proposes recommendations for defining them on a voluntary basis.

             o The methodology has introduced some changes to the system
               boundaries of iron and steel products and aluminium products. The
               idea is to exclude finishing processes that have a limited contribution
               to embedded emissions.
o The installation may use precursors from different suppliers and
  reporting periods. The methodology sets a weighted averaging as
  default but allows the assignment of certain precursor from specific
  suppliers or reporting periods to a specific production process, if it
  can be demonstrated.

o The monitoring plan and emissions report are the documents for
  translating the methodology’s general rules to the reality of each
  installation. The monitoring plan also helps the verifier to plan the site
  visit and the verification. The emissions report provides the results of
  the monitoring plan and the calculation of emissions in a document,
  as a basis for verification.
